when developing learning algorithms very
often a few simple plots can give you a
better sense of what the album is doing
and just sanity check that everything's
going okay and the algorithm is doing
what is supposed to for example in an
earlier video I talked about how
plotting the cost function J of theta
can help you make sure that gradient
descent is converging often plus of the
data or of the learning album outputs
will also give you ideas for how to
improve your learning algorithm
fortunately octave has a very simple
tools to generate lots of different
plots and when I use learning algorithms
I find that plotting the data plotting
the learning our album and so on are
often an important part of how I get
ideas for improving the algorithms and
in this video I'd like to show you some
of these octave tools for plotting and
visualizing your data here's my octave
window let's quickly generate some data
for us the plot so I'm going to set T to
be equal to you know this array of
numbers est set of numbers going from 0
up to a point 9 8 let's set y1 equals
sine of 2 pi for T and if I want to plot
the sine function is very easy I just
type plot T comma y1 and hit enter and
up come this plot where the horizontal
axis is the T variable and the vertical
axis is y1 which is this sort of
sinusoidal function that we just
computed let's set Y to its be equal to
the cosine of 2 pi for T like so and if
I plot T comma y2 what octave will do is
they'll take my sinusoid plot and it
will replace it with this cosine
function there now you know cosine of X
is a 1 now what if I want to have both
the sine and the cosine plots on top of
each other what I'm going to do is I'm
going to type plot T comma y1 so here's
my sine function and then I'm going to
use the function hold on and what hold
on does is it causes octave to now plot
new figures on top
of the old one and let me now plot T y2
and I plot the cosine function in a
different color and so let me put there
are in quotation marks there and instead
of replacing the current figure I'll
plot the cosine function on top and the
R indicates that went is an event color
and here are additional commands xlabel
time say to label the x-axis or
horizontal axis and y label value say to
label the vertical axis value and I can
also and I can also label my two lines
with this command legend sine cosine and
this Plus this legend up on the upper
right showing what the two lines are and
finally title my plot for the title at
the top of this figure lastly if you
want to save this figure you type
printing the attach DP and G my plot dot
PNG so PNG is a graphics file format and
if you do this this will actually save
this as a file if I do that let me
actually change the rectory to let's see
like that and then I will print that out
so this will take a while depending on
how your octave conversion is set up
this may take a few seconds but change
the rectory to my desktop and octave is
now taking a few seconds to save this if
I now go to my desktop let's hide these
windows here's my plot dot PNG with
Octavia saying you know there's the
figure I save it as a PNG file also can
save files in other formats as well so
you can type help plot if you want to
see the other file formats rather than
the PNG that time we can say figures it
and lastly if you want to get rid of a
plot
the close command causes a figure to go
away so that's that figure but type
close you know that figure just
disappeared from my just disappeared
from my desktop octave also lets you
specify a figure number so you type
figure one plots T y1 that thoughts up
first figure and that plus T y1 and then
if you want the second figure you
specify a different figure number so
figure two plot T y2 like so and now on
my desktop I actually have two figures
figure 1 and figure 2 that's one
plotting the sine function one plotting
the cosine function here's one other
neat command that I often use which is
the subplot command so we'll use subplot
one two one what that does is it device
subdivides the plot into a one by two
grid that's what the first two
parameters are and it starts to access
the first element that's what the final
parameter one is right so this divided
my figure into one by two grid and I
want to access the first element right
now and so if I type that in this
brought up this figure that is on the
left and if I plot T y1 it now fills up
this you know first element and if I now
do subpart 1 to 2 I'm going to start to
access the second element and plot T y2
well so in y2 in the right hand side or
in the second element and last command
you can also change the axis scale so
you change X is to 0.5 1 minus 1 1 and
the sets dear x range and Y range for
the figure on on the right and
concretely assess the horizontal range
of values and figure on the right to
range from 0.5 to 1 and the vertical
axis values to range from minus 1/2
and you know you don't need to memorize
all these commands if you ever need to
change the axis all you need to know is
that you know there's an axis command
then you can really get the details from
the usual octave helpful come and find
me
just a couple last commands COF clear is
a figure and yes one more neat trick
let's set a to be equal to a 5x5 magic
square say so a is now this 5x5 matrix
doesn't mean trick that I sometimes use
to visualize the matrix which is I can
use image SC of a and what this will do
is this will plot a five by five matrix
so take my matrix and plot this as a
five by five grid of colors where the
different colors correspond to the
different values in the a matrix so
concretely I can also do color bar let
me use a more sophisticated command in
which SC a color bar color map gray this
is actually running three commands at
the time we're running a rich SC then
running color bar then running color map
gray and what this does is it sets the
color map to a grey color map and on the
right it also puts in this color bar and
so this color bar shows what the
different shades of color correspond to
concretely the upper-left element of the
a matrix of seventeen and so here that
corresponds to kind of a mint shade of
gray whereas in contrast the second
element of a sort of the one two element
of a is 24 right so it's a 1 2 is 24 so
that corresponds to this square up here
which is a you know nearly a shade of
white and the small value say a what is
that a four five you know it's the value
3 over here that corresponds you can see
on my color bar that corresponds to a
much darker shade in this image so
here's another example I can plot a
larger you know here's a magic fifteen
that gives me a fifteen by fifteen Magic
Square
and this gives me a plot of what my
fifteen by fifteen
magic squares values look like and
finally to wrap up this video what
you've seen me do here is use a comma
chaining of function calls here's how
you actually do this if I type equals 1
B equals 2 C equals 3 and hit enter then
this this is actually carrying out three
commands at the same time or really
carrying out three commands one after
another and it prints out all three
results and this is a lot like equals 1
B equals 2 T equals 3 except that if I
use semicolons instead of a comma it
doesn't print out anything so this you
know this thing here we call comma
chaining of command so comma chaining of
function calls and it's just another
convenient way in octave to put multiple
commands like image SC color bar color
map to put multi commands on the same
line so that's it you now know how to
plot different figures in octave and in
the next video the next main P is going
to tell you about is how to write
control statements like if while for
statements in octave as well as how to
define and use functions